Improve Sieve instructions (#2411)
exercism/problem-specifications: exercises/sieve/instructions.md

# Instructions

Your task is to create a program that implements the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm to find all prime numbers less than or equal to a given number.

A prime number is a number larger than 1 that is only divisible by 1 and itself.
For example, 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, and 13 are prime numbers.
By contrast, 6 is _not_ a prime number as it not only divisible by 1 and itself, but also by 2 and 3.

To use the Sieve of Eratosthenes, you first create a list of all the numbers between 2 and your given number.
Then you repeat the following steps:

1. Find the next unmarked number in your list (skipping over marked numbers).

>    This must be a prime number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This is a prime number.
```

As it is not immediately clear whether the «must be» is an inference or a requirement.

2. Mark all the multiples of that prime number as **not** prime.

You keep repeating these steps until you've gone through every number in your list.
At the end, all the unmarked numbers are prime.

~~~~exercism/note
The tests don't check that you've implemented the algorithm, only that you've come up with the correct list of primes.
To check you are implementing the Sieve correctly, a good first test is to check that you do not use division or remainder operations.
~~~~

## Example

Let's say you're finding the primes less than or equal to 10.

- List out 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, leaving them all unmarked.

> - 2 is still unmarked, so it must be prime.

Reviewer: Here, the «must be» is clearly an inference.

A prime number is a number that is only divisible by 1 and itself.
For example, 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, and 13 are prime numbers.

To use the Sieve of Eratosthenes, you first create a list of all the numbers between 2 and your given number.
Then you repeat the following steps:

1. Find the next unmarked number in your list. This is a prime number.
2. Mark all the multiples of that prime number as **not** prime.

You keep repeating these steps until you've gone through every number in your list.
At the end, all the unmarked numbers are prime.

~~~~exercism/note
For example, if you're finding the primes between 2 and 10:
1. Mark 2 as prime.
   Mark 4, 6, 8 and 10 as not prime.
2. Mark 3 as prime.

>    Mark 6 and 9 as not prime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Mark 6 and 9 as not prime _(marking 6 is optional - as it's already been marked)_.
```

3. Skip 4 as it's marked as not-prime.
4. Mark 5 as prime.

>    Mark 10 as not prime _(optional - as it's already been marked)_.

Reviewer 3: 6 gets marked as not prime twice and isn't called out.

> 5. Skip 6 as it's marked as not-prime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Skip 6 as it's marked as not prime.
```

6. Mark 7 as prime.

> 7. Skip 8 as it's marked as not-prime.
> 8. Skip 9 as it's marked as not-prime.
> 9. Skip 10 as it's marked as not-prime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Skip 8 as it's marked as not prime.
8. Skip 9 as it's marked as not prime.
9. Skip 10 as it's marked as not prime.
```

> You've examined all numbers and found 2, 3, 5, and 7 as the primes below 10.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You've examined all numbers and found 2, 3, 5, and 7 are still unmarked, which means they're the primes below 10.
```

> ~~~~

Reviewer: Is the placement of this text inside an `exercism/note` intentional?

**Note:** The tests don't check that you've implemented the algorithm, only that you've come up with the correct list of primes.

> To check for yourself, a good first test is to check that you do not use division or remainder operations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To check you are implementing the Sieve correctly, a good first test is to check that you do not use division or remainder operations.
```

> To check you are implementing the Sieve correctly, a good first test is to check that you do not use division or remainder operations.

Reviewer: This text says «Note» but is not in an `exercism/note`.

> A prime number is a number that is only divisible by 1 and itself.
> For example, 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, and 13 are prime numbers.

Reviewer: They asked: why is 1 not listed as a prime number?

The answer is: so that we can declare that all numbers have a unique prime factorization. If 1 were prime, every number *n* would have lots of different prime factorizations: *n*, 1×*n*, 1×1×*n*, etc. But such an explanation does not fit into these instructions.

We could exclude 1 explicitly,

```suggestion
A prime number is a number larger than 1 that is only divisible by 1 and itself.
For example, 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, and 13 are prime numbers.
```

or we could exclude it implicitly, e.g.

```suggestion
A prime number is a number that is not divisible by any smaller number.
For example, 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, and 13 are prime numbers.
```

You can probably think of better expressions.

> A prime number is a number that is only divisible by 1 and itself.
> For example, 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, and 13 are prime numbers.

Reviewer: I like negative examples.

```suggestion
A prime number is a number that is only divisible by 1 and itself.
For example, 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, and 13 are prime numbers.
In contrast, 6 is not a prime number because it is divisible not only by 1 and itself, but also by 2 and 3.
```

Reviewer 4: I would be tempted to say:
For example, 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, and 13 are the first six prime numbers.

> To use the Sieve of Eratosthenes, you first create a list of all the numbers between 2 and your given number.

Reviewer: «your given number»: no given number was mentioned previously. No biggie, but could be fixed using with e.g. (above)

```diff
-Your task is to create a program that implements the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm to find prime numbers.
+Your task is to create a program that implements the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm to find all prime numbers below a given number.
```

Then you repeat the following steps:

1. Find the next unmarked number in your list. This is a prime number.
2. Mark all the multiples of that prime number as **not** prime.

You keep repeating these steps until you've gone through every number in your list.
At the end, all the unmarked numbers are prime.

~~~~exercism/note
The tests don't check that you've implemented the algorithm, only that you've come up with the correct list of primes.
To check you are implementing the Sieve correctly, a good first test is to check that you do not use division or remainder operations.
~~~~

## Example

Let's say you're finding the primes below 10.

- List out 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.

> - Mark 2 as prime.

Reviewer: The explanation above never mentions «marking as prime». It only mentions unmarked numbers.

```suggestion
- 2 is still unmarked, so it must be prime.
```

  Mark 4, 6, 8 and 10 as "not prime".
- Mark 3 as prime.
  Mark 6 and 9 as not prime _(marking 6 is optional - as it's already been marked)_.

> - Skip 4 as it's marked as "not prime".

Reviewer: «skipping» is never mentioned in the sketch of the algorithm above, which instead only says to «find the next unmarked number».

- Mark 5 as prime.
  Mark 10 as not prime _(optional - as it's already been marked)_.
- Skip 6 as it's marked as "not prime".
- Mark 7 as prime.
- Skip 8 as it's marked as "not prime".
- Skip 9 as it's marked as "not prime".
- Skip 10 as it's marked as "not prime".

> You've examined all numbers and found 2, 3, 5, and 7 are still unmarked, which means they're the primes below 10.

Reviewer: In this example, by the end _none_ of the numbers are still unmarked, as the primes are all marked as prime. Removing the «mark as prime» steps would fix this inconsistency.
